Everyone thinks they can just run a
Google ad, get some clicks, and make
money. But here's what no one tells you.
Google doesn't care if your ads work.
They've made over 260 billion in 2024,
mostly from people who have never turned
a profit. In fact, 8 out of 10 marketers
are losing money on Google ads right
now. So, if your ads aren't working,
you're not alone. And look, I know how
frustrating it can be. You follow the
advice. You did everything by the book.
Good targeting, clean creative, strong
offer, best practices, but something
still isn't clicking. So, what happens?
You start tweaking the headline, then
the image, then the CTA button. You
change the offer, lower the price,
rewrite the copy, switch the audience.
You spend hours inside Google Ads
dashboard trying to optimize, but
nothing seems to move the needle. It
doesn't mean you're bad at marketing. It
just means no one showed you what
actually makes ads profitful. Because
here's the truth. If you're missing the
one foundational piece that actually
drives profit, all those surface level
tweaks, they're just rearranging the
furniture in a burning house. I'm Neil
Patel and I run one of the largest
digital ad agencies in the world. We
have over a thousand employees and
manage over a billion in ad spend. We
work with everyone from mom and pop
shops to Fortune 500 companies. And I
can tell you this, the big difference
between campaigns at scale and the ones
that sync has nothing to do with your ad
settings. The problem isn't your
targeting. It's not your keywords. It's
not your bane strategy. The real problem
is what happens in the 8 seconds after
someone clicks your ad. In this video,
I'm going to show you the invisible
system that separates profitable
campaigns from money burning once and
how to engineer it so Google finally
becomes a growth machine instead of a
slot machine. Let's get started.
Imagine you own a physical retail store.
People walk in, take a quick look
around, and walk right back out. Not
because they're interested, but because
the layout was confusing, the lighting
was harsh, and no one greeted them.
That's what's happening on your website
right now. The average landing page
converts at 2.3%. So, I want you to
think about what that actually means. If
you're paying $5 a click and only 2.3%
of those visitors convert, you're
spending $217 to get one customer, 97.7%
of your ad spend is driving traffic that
bounces. That's like 97 out of every 100
people are walking off the door without
buying. But here's what most people do
when they see this. My targeting must be
wrong. Let me try different keywords.
Maybe I need to lower my bids. Wrong.
Wrong. And wrong. Your ads did their
job. They got qualified people to click.
The problem is what happens in those
crucial 8 seconds after someone lands on
your page. Because we've analyzed
landing pages that convert at 8%, 12%,
even 15%. Same traffic, same ads, same
targeting. The only difference, the
website experience. Let me show you the
math. Scenario A, $5 a click, $2.3%
conversion, $217 cost per customer.
Scenario B, $5 a click, 10% conversion,
$50 cost per customer. Scenario B gets
you customers for 77% less money. That's
not a small improvement. That's a
difference between profitable and
bankrupt. Most of our clients who
couldn't make Google ads work had this
exact problem. Great targeting, solid
ads, relevant traffic, but their landing
page was a conversion killer. The
traffic was ready to buy. The website
just couldn't close the deal.
Your landing page is just one part of
the problem. But even if your
conversions are okay and your campaigns
are still failing, chances are you're
getting bad data. Why? Because you're
measuring things wrong. And when you
make decisions based on bad data, you
don't just pause good campaigns. you
accidentally sabotage the entire
business without realizing it. To put it
into perspective, let's say you run an
ad. Someone clicks and they don't buy
immediately. So, you mark that click as
wasted money. But here's what actually
happened. That person saw your brand,
visit your website, maybe even added
something to their cart, then they left.
3 days later, they Google your company
name directly and buy. 2 weeks after
that, they buy again. A month later,
they refer you a friend who becomes your
biggest customer. But near your Google
Ads dashboard, that original click shows
you as a loss. We've analyzed thousands
of customer journeys across our clients,
and here's what we found. The most
profitable customers don't buy on their
first visit. The average customer
touches your brand between six and 20
times before making a purchase. But most
markers only give credit to the last
thing that happened. It's like giving
the guy who scores the touchdown all the
credit while ignoring the 10 plays that
got the ball down the field. So, what
happens? You look at your Google Ads
account and think, "These ads aren't
working. Only 2% of people who click
actually buy." But the reality, those
ads might be responsible for a big chunk
of your total revenue. You're not just
connecting the dots. This is why
profitable companies can afford to pay
$50, 100, or even $500 per click. It's
not because they have deeper pockets.
It's because they know the real lifetime
value of that click. While you're
measuring the sprint, they're measuring
the marathon.
Ever walk into a grocery store for one
thing and walk out with 10? That's not
an accident. The entire customer
experience was engineered to make that
happen. Same thing on Amazon. You go in
for a phone case and somehow you end up
with a charger, scheme protector, and a
tripod. That's what I call funnel
economics in action. The business is
actually making money with Google ads.
They're not just paying for clicks.
They're designing what happens after the
click to multiply customer value. So,
let's see how that works. Business A,
they follow the typical approach. They
send ad traffic directly to their
product page. They have a basic checkout
process. They don't do any follow-up for
people who don't buy and they end up
converting around 2% of its visitors if
they're lucky. But business B, they have
an engineered approach. Visitors are
going through a multi-step funnel with
lead capture. There are email sequences
that are sent out to non buyers.
Customers are shown upsells and
cross-ells. They have multiple payment
options they can use to make a purchase.
They'll convert 8% or more of the
visitors. Same traffic costs, same
audience, same industry, but completely
different economics. Business A is
paying five bucks a click and only 2% of
those people buy. That means they're
spending $250 to get one customer. Now,
when you look at business B, same $5 a
click, but their site converts at 8%.
So, they're only spending $62.50 to get
a customer. So, business B can acquire
customers for 75% less money. That means
business B can outbid business A in
every auction, scale faster with the
same budget, and reinvest profits into
growth. The engineered business doesn't
just win, they dominate. Because once
you crack the conversion code,
advertising becomes easy. You're not
fighting for cheaper clicks anymore.
You're extracting more value from every
click you get. And that's a completely
different game.
Now, I want to take this even further
because if conversion engineering is
what really actually drives profit, the
real question becomes, how do you
engineer conversions? You can actually
predict whether someone's Google ads
will be profitable just by looking at
the website for 30 seconds. So, we ran a
study. We surveyed 13,000 marketers
running Google Ads. And we didn't just
ask them how they spent or what tools
they use. We asked them one simple
question. Are your Google ads
profitable? Then we separated the
winners from the losers and dug into
exactly what the profitable ones were
doing differently. Here's what we
uncovered, and it might surprise you.
The marketers making money aren't using
some secret bidding strategy or magical
keyword tool. They're systematically
implementing specific conversion factors
on their websites. And there's a clear
hierarchy. Number one, 59.9% of profit
marketers use funnels, not just a
landing page with a buy button. Actual
multi-step systems that increase
customer value. If someone buys dog
clothes, they get offered dog shoes. If
someone buys face masks, they see
vitamin C serum. Why does this work?
Because it increases the lifetime value
of each customer, which means you can
afford to pay more to acquire them.
Number two, 58.2%
use multiple payment options. For
example, I run a software company called
Uberess. When we added PayPal to the
checkout, conversions jumped 18%
overnight. Then when we added Google Pay
and Apple Pay, we saw even more gains.
Why? because every payment friction you
remove converts more people. Number
three, 47.9%
have email sequences for non- buyers.
Most people won't buy from you on their
first visit, but if you can capture
their email, you can nurture them over
time. The profitable marketers don't
just hope people come back, they
systematically bring them back. Number
four, 42.5% use multi-step checkouts.
This one surprises me. You think fewer
steps equals better conversions. Wrong.
When people take multiple small actions,
they're more likely to compete the full
process. It's called commitment
escalation, and it works. Number five,
35.6% optimize copy for specific
personas. They don't just target
everyone interested in marketing. They
create separate landing pages for
startups versus enterprises. Different
copy, different offers, different social
proof. Number six, 33.4% use remarketing
for abandoned carts. This isn't just
about showing the same ad again. Smart
marketers segment people by behavior,
like people who added to a cart but
didn't buy, and show them more relevant
messages that pull them back in. Number
seven, 26.8%
use video on their landing page. Video
builds trust faster. It helps people
understand your product quicker and adds
personality that static images just
can't match, especially for mobile
users. Number eight, 21.5% use long
descriptive landing pages. Not everyone
buys right away. Some people need
details, benefits, and comparisons.
These longer pages give curious buyers
everything they need to make a confident
decision. Number nine, 17.7% use
influencer content or testimonials. This
one's simple. People trust people more
than brats. Even if it's a micro
influencer or just a customer video,
borrower trust can move the needle,
especially in a crowded market. Now,
taking all these nine factors into
account, here's what's interesting. Most
failed campaigns we analyzed had
implemented zero to two of these
factors. Most profitable campaigns had
implemented five to seven. It's not
about perfecting one thing. It's about
systematically removing friction and
increasing value at every step. Now
look, knowing what profitful marketers
do is one thing, but understanding why
those strategies work is another. That's
how you make this click.
There's a science to why people buy from
a website and most businesses are doing
it completely wrong. This is the stuff
that actually moves the needle. Because
once you understand the psychology
behind conversion, you're not just
copying tactics. You're building systems
that work across any product, any offer,
any industry. Let's break it down.
Number one, funnels work because they
increase customer value. But the
psychology behind it, it's called value
anchoring. When someone buys a $20
product and gets offered a $40 upgrade,
their brain is still anchored to the
first price, so the upsell feels
reasonable, sometimes even like a deal.
Add in impulse momentum and now you're
stacking extra revenue with every order
almost effortlessly. Number two,
multiple payment options are all about
choice architecture. When you only offer
one payment method, you create friction.
Their brain starts asking, "What if I
don't want to use this card? Is this
site even secure?" But when you offer
Apple Pay, PayPal, Google Pay, you
remove those doubts before they form and
that increases conversions. Number
three, email sequences for non- buyers
is the mere exposure effect. Research
shows people need six to 20 brand touch
points before they trust you. That first
ad was touch number one. Your email
becomes touches 2, three, four. By the
time they're ready to buy, you're the
default choice because you've built a
relationship with them. Number four,
multi-step checkouts work because of
commitment escalation effect. The moment
someone fills out one step, like a name
and email, they've made a micro
commitment. Psychologists call this the
sunk cost fallacy. Their brain says,
"Well, I already started, might as well
finish." Number five, persona specific
copy works because of identity
resonance. You're not just selling a
product, you're speaking directly to who
they believe they are. When a founder
reads copy saying for fast growing
startups, they instantly feel seen.
That's identity- based marketing and
it's powerful. Number six, smart
remarketing with abandoned carts. This
one's driven by relevance framing.
Generic ads don't work in a world where
more and more digital experiences are
being personalized for its users. So,
when someone leaves their cart and sees
a follow-up that speaks exactly what
they left behind, that specifically
makes them feel like you're talking
directly to them and that brings them
back. Number seven, video testimonials
trigger what is called trust transfer
mechanism. People don't trust marketing
copy, but they do trust other people,
especially people who look like them,
sound like them, and share the same
problems. Number eight, long detailed
landing pages is about cognitive
closure. Some buyers are quick, others
need more info before they feel safe to
purchase. Longer pages give them the
closure they need. This includes
comparisons, FAQ, detailed benefits so
they can stop overthinking and just buy.
Number nine, influencer content. This
plays off social proof bias. We trust
people who've been there before us. Even
if it's a micro influencer, their words
carry more weight than your brand voice.
And crowded markets, that borrower trust
can be the deciding factor. Now, here's
the big takeaway. These aren't just
random best practices. They're grounded
in how the human brain actually makes
decisions. And when you line them up,
you stop guessing about conversions and
you start engineering them step by step.
All right, you already know what works
and why it works. Now, let me show you
exactly how to implement this so your
Google ads actually start making money.
Here's your step-by-step blueprint.
Phase one, the foundation, weeks one and
two. Step one, implement multiple
payment options. This is the easiest
win. Most e-commerce platforms let you
add PayPal, Apple Pay, Google Pay in
under an hour. Expected results, 15 to
25% conversion increase almost
immediately. Step two, set up email
capture for non- buyers and add an exit
intent pop-up or a lead magnet before
your main offer. Before you go, get our
free, you know, could be a tool, could
be a guide, could be a checklist. It's
up to you. Now, you can follow up with
people who don't buy immediately once
they opt in for that. Phase two, the
conversion engine, weeks 3 to four. Step
three, split out your checkout process.
If you're collecting more than six to
eight pieces of information on your
first page, break it up into multiple
steps. Page one, maybe name, email, and
basic info. Page two, payment, and
shipping details. Add progress
indicators so people know how close they
are to finishing. Step four, add social
proof. Get three to five customer video
testimonials. Even smartphone videos
work. Place them strategically near your
headline, right before the checkout
button, on the payment page, but just
make sure it's not distracting them.
It's placed in a way that just flows
with the experience. Phase three, the
optimization layer. This is weeks 5
through six. Step five, create persona
specific landing pages. Don't send
everyone to the same page. If you serve
both small businesses and enterprises,
creating separate landing pages with
different headlines, testimonials, and
case studies is important. Step six,
implement smart remarketing. Set up
different remarketing campaigns based on
behavior. People who visited but didn't
engage, send them educational content.
People who started the checkout but
didn't finish, show them ads that
address specific objections. People who
engaged but didn't buy, show them social
proof and urgency. Phase four, the
advanced systems. This is week seven to
eight. Step seven, add upsells and
crossells. After someone buys,
immediately offer complimentary
products. This increases customer
lifetime value, which means you can
afford higher ad costs. This works for
both B2B and B TOC. Here's what happens
when you implement the system. Before,
you have a 2% conversion rate and a $250
cost per customer. After the conversion
bumps, 8 to 12%, and your cost per
customer is around $50 to $75. Now,
that's not just better performance.
That's a completely different business.
But here's a critical part. Implement
these in order. Don't try to do
everything at once. Each phase builds on
the previous one.
Now, in order for everything we talked
about to really work, this is the most
critical piece for the whole system. If
you measure the success the wrong way,
you'll kill profitable campaigns before
they have a chance to work. As we
discussed before, most marketers rely on
lastclick attribution. That means if a
customer saw your ad, visited your site,
left, Googled you later, and even
bought, the ad gets zero credit. And
just like that, your best performing
campaign looks like a loser. So, how do
you avoid that? By measuring success the
right way, starting with the numbers
that actually matter. Metric number one,
track contribution margin, not just
rorowass. Most people look at return on
ad spend. I spent $100, I made 200.
That's a 2x row ads, but that's
incomplete. If you made 200 in revenue,
but your product cost is $80 to fulfill,
your actual contribution is $120. Your
true rorowaz isn't 2x, it's 1.2x. Metric
number two, extend your customer
lifetime value window. Most people
measure profitability over 30 days, but
your customers might buy again from you
month two, three, or even six. We track
our client customers for at least one
year, if not up to 3 plus years to see
the real value. In B2B, we track over
five plus years. A campaign that looks
unprofitable at 30 days often becomes
your most profitable campaign at 12
months. Metric number three, track brand
search lift. How much did your brand's
search traffic increase after running
ads? When people see your ad but don't
click, they often Google your company
name later. That's dark social invisible
conversions your ads are driving. Here's
what this changes. Instead of killing
campaigns that don't convert in 7 days,
you nurture campaigns that build
long-term customer value. When you
measure correctly, campaigns that looked
unprofitable often become your best
performers. You stop making decisions
based on incomplete data. you start
making decisions based on total customer
value. That's how to build a Google ad
strategy that actually scales. So,
here's what we cover. 78% of marketers
lose money on Google ads, not because
their targeting is wrong where their
keywords suck, but because they're
optimizing the wrong part of the
equation. While everyone else is
tweaking campaign settings, the profit
marketers are engineering what happens
after the click. They're implementing
systematic conversion factors, funnels,
multiple payment options, email
sequences, even multi-step checkouts.
They're removing psychological barriers
and increasing customer lifetime value.
And they're measuring success based on
total customer value, not just lastclick
conversions. That's the difference
between Google Ads as an expense and
Google Ads as a profit center. Now, you
have a road map. You know the nine
factors. You know the psychology behind
them. You have the implementation
blueprint. But you need to actually
implement it because knowledge without
action is just expensive entertainment.
Now, Google ads is just one piece of the
puzzle. If you want to dominate your
market, you need to understand how
Google's AI is changing the entire
landscape and how smart marketers are
positioning themselves to get cited in
AI generated results. Watch this next
video where I break down the new rules
of what I call GEO and how to train
Google's AI to recognize your brand as a
trusted source in your industry. Because
while everyone else is fighting for
clicks, the smart money is positioning
for citations. Click here to watch that
video and stay ahead of what's coming
next.